as they entered november, the weather turned very cold.
the mountains around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel.
every morning the ground was covered in frost.
hagrid could be seen from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the quidditch field, bundled up in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous beaverskin boots.
the quidditch season had begun.
on saturday, harry would be playing in his first match after weeks of training: gryffindor versus slytherin.
if gryffindor won, they would move up into second place in the house championship.
hardly anyone had seen harry play because wood had decided that, as their secret weapon, harry should be kept, well, secret.
it was really lucky that harry now had hermione as a friend.
she had also lent him quidditch through the ages, which turned out to be a very interesting read.
harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a world cup match in 1473; that seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players, and that most serious quidditch accidents seemed to happen to them; that although people rarely died playing quidditch, referees had been known to vanish and turn up months later in the sahara desert.
hermione had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since harry and ron had saved her from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer for it.
they were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when snape crossed the yard.
harry noticed at once that snape was limping.
he limped over.
harry showed him.
five points from gryffindor.
the gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening.
harry, ron, and hermione sat together next to a window.
harry felt restless.
he wanted quidditch through the ages back, to take his mind off his nerves about tomorrow.
why should he be afraid of snape?
getting up, he told ron and hermione he was going to ask snape if he could have it.
he made his way down to the staffroom and knocked.
there was no answer.
he knocked again.
nothing.
perhaps snape had left the book in there?
it was worth a try.
snape and filch were inside, alone.
snape was holding his robes above his knees.
one of his legs was bloody and mangled.
filch was handing snape bandages.
harry gulped.
he sprinted back upstairs.
the next morning dawned very bright and cold.
the great hall was full of the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheerful chatter of everyone looking forward to a good quidditch match.
many students had binoculars.
the seats might be raised high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what was going on sometimes.
ron and hermione joined neville, seamus, and dean the west ham fan up in the top row.
as a surprise for harry, they had painted a large banner on one of the sheets scabbers had ruined.
it said potter for president, and dean, who was good at drawing, had done a large gryffindor lion underneath.
then hermione had performed a tricky little charm so that the paint flashed different colors.
wood cleared his throat for silence.
i know it.
good luck, all of you.
madam hooch was refereeing.
she stood in the middle of the field waiting for the two teams, her broom in her hand.
harry noticed that she seemed to be speaking particularly to the slytherin captain, marcus flint, a sixth year.
harry thought flint looked as if he had some troll blood in him.
out of the corner of his eye he saw the fluttering banner high above, flashing potter for president over the crowd.
his heart skipped.
he felt braver.
madam hooch gave a loud blast on her silver whistle.
fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air.
they were off.
way up above them, harry was gliding over the game, squinting about for some sign of the snitch.
now he was back to staring around for the snitch.
harry saw it.
in a great rush of excitement he dived downward after the streak of gold.
slytherin seeker terence higgs had seen it, too.
madam hooch spoke angrily to flint and then ordered a free shot at the goal posts for gryffindor.
but in all the confusion, of course, the golden snitch had disappeared from sight again.
flint coulda knocked harry outta the air.
his broom gave a sudden, frightening lurch.
for a split second, he thought he was going to fall.
he gripped the broom tightly with both his hands and knees.
it happened again.
it was as though the broom was trying to buck him off.
but nimbus two thousands did not suddenly decide to buck their riders off.
it was zigzagging through the air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that almost unseated him.
lee was still commentating.
it was carrying him slowly higher, away from the game, jerking and twitching as it went.
he stared through his binoculars.
his broom had started to roll over and over, with him only just managing to hold on.
then the whole crowd gasped.
he was now dangling from it, holding on with only one hand.
snape was in the middle of the stands opposite them.
he had his eyes fixed on harry and was muttering nonstop under his breath.
ron turned the binoculars back on harry.
his broom was vibrating so hard, it was almost impossible for him to hang on much longer.
they dropped lower and circled beneath him, obviously hoping to catch him if he fell.
marcus flint seized the quaffle and scored five times without anyone noticing.
it took perhaps thirty seconds for snape to realize that he was on fire.
a sudden yelp told her she had done her job.
it was enough.
up in the air, harry was suddenly able to clamber back on to his broom.
harry heard none of this, though.
harry decided on the truth.
it bit him.
